It's so great to be with you and I especially want to say welcome to any of you who maybe were visiting us with us last week at Easter for the first time and you've joined us again today.
We gather together for worship and this is what we do now on Sundays.
We have community group digital gatherings and now we have every week a 10, 30 larger public gatherings specifically for people who aren't in community groups or who are visiting and checking us out.
And I want to be clear on this that gathering is so important for us as a church.
I mean, we are a family of sinners saved by grace who gather for worship, scatter for mission, and do everything for the glory of God.
And so we don't just want people watching the same content.
We actually want to come together even if it's just digitally to worship the Lord.
And so this is a time for us where we acknowledge that this isn't ideal.
This isn't what we want to be doing or what we have been doing or what we will be doing in the long run, but this is what we've got right now.
And so we want to come together digitally and we'll hold that tension of being able to be really grateful for technology in this time, but also lament the loss of physical presence of being able to give one another a hug, a greeting to hear each other's voices as we sing.
But we'll continue to gather this way and look to the Lord as one people.
One way that we worship as a church is through giving of our tides and our offerings.
We want to be a generous people because we serve a generous God.
And I know that this is a difficult time financially for so many people in our city and for many of you.
I hope it's a time more than ever where the church steps up and we're helping out one another meeting each other's needs.
But I also would want to encourage you and call you to continue to give to the church.
The Lord has called us here and he's working in and through the church.
Our staff is working hard.
We're serving meals every day at the Hope Center.
We're supporting organizations in our city.
So we would ask that you would continue to give joyfully and sacrificially as the Lord works in and through us as a church.
All right.
We are starting a new sermon series today on the book of Philippians.
And we're calling this series Defiant Joy.
I really think that the book of Philippians is incredibly relevant for us today and everything that we're experiencing in this global pandemic.
Think about it.
In this letter that Paul writes to the church in Philippi, Paul is in prison, so talk about social distancing.
He can certainly identify with us there.
He's got a friend who is ill and he talks constantly about how whether he is present or absent, that they are to be faithful to the Lord.
But more importantly, what we see throughout the book of Philippians is this call to press on even in the midst of adversity.
We can have joy and suffering.
We can experience community in isolation.
We can have contentment even in hardship.
That's why we're calling this series Defiant Joy because we refuse to let our circumstance have the final say over our lives.
Jesus has the final say over our lives and we will find our joy and our peace and our contentment
in him.
Now as we go through this series on the book of Philippians, we're also going to have some weekly formative practices that we put out there for you all to be able to connect what you learn on Sundays with your daily life Monday through Saturday.
So we'll be putting out some content early in the week through social media and our website.
that's gonna help us put into practice what we're learning in the book of Philippians.
In Philippians four verse, in chapter four verse nine, the Apostle Paul says, all these things that I'm teaching you and that you're hearing and that you're learning, practice them, do them, put them into practice.
So we wanna work hard to do this as a church and be able to be connected throughout the week in that way.
All right, in this first week of the series, I'm gonna be preaching on just the first two verses of the book, Philippians chapter one.
verses one and two, so I'll read that for us and then I'll open our time in prayer.
Philippians chapter one, verses one and two.
Paul and Timothy, servants of Christ Jesus.
To all the saints in Christ Jesus who are at Philippi, with the overseers and deacons, grace to you in peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
This is God's word, let's pray together.
God, we come before you desperate for you to move, for you to intervene, for you to work in our lives.
We long for the grace and peace that your scriptures speak of.
God, we pray for grace and peace for the medical workers and first responders in our city and throughout this world.
God, we pray for grace and peace for those who have lost work and who are hurting financially right now.
We pray for grace and peace for the sick
and for those who are grieving the loss of loved ones.
We pray for grace and peace for us as a church and for other churches throughout Los Angeles, that this would be a time where we look to you, where we cry out to you, where we trust in you.
And God, we pray that this would be a time where we grow, where we grow in our dependence on you, where we grow in our love for you, because you're giving us eyes to see how you're at work in all of this, Lord, we trust you.
And we pray that you would work mightily today through the preaching of your word.
We pray this in Jesus' name.
Amen.
Well, what we have in the book of Philippians is this letter that the Apostle Paul writes to a church in Philippi.
Now, Philippi is this city that was a, it's in modern day Greece, but it was a Roman colony.
And what that meant is for them to be declared a Roman colony is it gave them a lot more status, a lot more honor,
but it also meant that they had more money and so that Rome would come in and build things for them, like a library, like pagan temples, like arenas or theaters.
And so this Roman colony of Philippi was a metropolitan city, teeming with life and culture and diversity, but it wasn't an easy place to be a follower of Jesus.
The church there would have been dealing with all kinds of adversity.
You pick up
clues of that throughout the book of Philippians that they were dealing with suffering, with persecution, even some division within their own church.
And yet amidst this diversity, what you see in the book of Philippians is that they truly were a community of joy, solidarity, and resilience.
They weren't crushed by adversity.
They were being strengthened by their adversity.
And what if that could be true of us
as well.
What if in this adversity that we're experiencing now, this hardship, this uncertainty, what if it actually strengthened us?
What if it strengthened you more as a person?
Well, I believe that that's exactly what can happen and what God wants to happen.
So how did this church become a community of joy and solidarity and resilience?
Well, to answer that question, I've got to give you a little bit of the backstory for this church in Philippi.
And that comes from Acts chapter 16.
So if you've got a Bible flipped there, I'm mostly going to summarize this, but I would love for you to be able to follow along and read this for yourself.
So it starts with the Apostle Paul.
He is like a missionary urban church planter who's going from city to city and planting churches as people's lives are being transformed by the gospel.
He meets a young man named Timothy.
Timothy has one of his parents who is a believer, the other is not.
Paul becomes like a spiritual father to him.
He takes him under his wing.
And one day, Paul has this vision of a man of Macedonia.
Now Macedonia is the region that the city of Philippi was in.
And so this man of Macedonia presents himself to Paul in this vision, in this vision at night,
And Paul walks away from this very clearly believing that God has called him to go to Macedonia and specifically to Philippi.
And so Paul is on this journey as you read through the book of Acts.
He goes from the Middle East to Asia Minor and then to modern day Europe.
Philippi, in fact, is the first church plant in modern day Europe.
And so I want you to hear that that Paul goes there because he's called by God.
Now, if you ask what brought Paul to Philippi, well, at one level, the answer could be a sailboat.
He had to sail there.
But Paul would say, more ultimately, he was brought there by God.
He was there because he was called by God.
So let me ask you this.
Why are you in Los Angeles?
What brought you here?
Maybe it was a 747.
Maybe it was a car.
Maybe it was your parents.
Maybe it was a job.
Maybe it was school.
What brought you to Los Angeles?
Well, what I want you to see here is
with the Apostle Paul, it's true of us, God has called us here.
He has greater purposes for us.
And so Paul and Timothy and Silas and Luke, they go to Philippi.
And when they go to Philippi, what Paul would traditionally do is he would go and find the synagogue and that's where he would start.
But there was no synagogue there.
And so he's looking around, he ends up outside of the city and stumbles upon a women's prayer meeting.
And so he goes to this group of women who are praying outside of the city, and he starts telling them about Jesus, that he's the Messiah.
And one of the women in this group, her name is Lydia.
Now, Lydia is from a place originally called Thyatira.
That means that ethnically she was Asian.
But now she's living in the city of Philippi.
We're told that she was a seller of purple goods.
Now, purple die.
It was very expensive in their time.
And so that means that she's probably someone who is selling clothes.
She's selling purple clothes.
She would have been very wealthy.
Lydia was a fashionista.
If she was in LA, she would have gone to fit him and then opened her own clothing store down in the arts district or something like that.
So she's a businesswoman.
She's wealthy.
And we're told that she is a God worshipper.
Now, what that means is that she wasn't Jewish, but that she had stopped believing in all of the pagan gods, all of the Greek gods and the Roman gods.
and that she believed in the one God that the Jews believed in.
But she didn't yet believe that Jesus was the Messiah.
And so Lydia and these women are there in this prayer meeting.
The Apostle Paul shows up.
This is how it all starts in Philippi, a women's prayer meeting and the Apostle Paul shows up and starts preaching the gospel to them.
And it says that while Paul is preaching that the Lord opens up Lydia's heart.
to pay attention to what's being said.
She hears the good news of Jesus.
She hears that he is the fulfillment of everything from the Old Testament, that he is the sacrifice for her sins, that he died, that he rose from the grave.
She trusts in him and she becomes a follower of Jesus.
So then she's a wealthy woman.
She has her own home.
She immediately then invites everyone back into her home.
Now we're told from there
that the Apostle Paul and his crew, they're walking along and this slave girl comes along and starts heckling them.
So it's this young girl.
She's literally a slave.
She's someone, she's considered someone else's property basically.
And what we're told about this slave girl is that she was demonized, that she was being oppressed by demons and that her owners were using her as a fortune teller.
So there's these evil powers within her and they're using that to make money off of her as a fortune teller.
Now this slave girl starts following around the Apostle Paul and everywhere, everywhere he goes, she follows them around and it's, she's following them.
It's almost like she's heckling them, but what she's saying is she's saying, these men are servants of the Most High God who proclaim to you the way of salvation.
So that's true what she's saying, but she won't leave them alone.
For days she follows them or she's like a troll on Twitter, but Paul can't block her.
Like she just keeps heckling them everywhere they go.
And so it's remarkable what happens after many days of this.
It says that Paul becomes so annoyed.
Okay?
You're not going to hear in very many miracles or exorcisms or anything like that in the Bible that come from a place of annoyance, but that's exactly what happens here.
It says that Paul is so annoyed that he turns and says to this evil spirit, I command you in the name of Jesus Christ to come out of her and it came out that very hour.
And so you could only imagine the peace and the joy
that this slave girl must have experienced having this demon gone from her life.
But the story takes a turn then.
We don't hear much more about the slave girl.
What we find out next is that the owners of the slave girl are livid.
They're upset because this slave girl and her fortune telling was the way that they made money.
And now that this evil spirit is gone, that they can't do that anymore.
And so they go and they take the Apostle Paul.
They drag him before the rulers in the city and they say, he's disrupting the city.
He's ruining everything.
They drag him before.
And what happens is not just a couple of people accusing the Apostle Paul.
It turns into a mob and they literally start beating Paul.
They strip him of his clothes.
They're striking him with long wooden sticks.
It literally turns into this mob on the Apostle Paul and they take him after that, after he's beaten, he's naked, he's bloody, and they tell a, they tell a jailer, take him and put him in prison.
So the jailer takes him, puts him in prison.
And, and at that point you think, what's going to happen here is the Apostle Paul and, and, and Silas and those who are, are they even going to live through this?
And the next thing that we hear in the story in Acts 16 is that at midnight, the apostle Paul and Silas are singing hymns and praying.
They're in prison and they're singing.
And not only are they singing, it says that the guards, the jailers are listening to them.
Can you imagine that?
They just finished beating them up and they're singing.
Maybe the jailers were looking at one another and saying, you punched him in the mouth.
And now he's using his mouth to sing praises.
to his God, what is happening right now?
And as they're singing and as the jailer is listening to them sing, we're told that a mighty earthquake comes.
And with this earthquake that Paul and others, their chains are broken and they have the opportunity where they could run out and the jailer sees what's going on.
And he knows if they get out on his watch that he will be killed.
So he grabs his sword
and points it towards himself and is getting ready to take his own life when the Apostle Paul cries out and says, stop, don't do it.
And rather than them leaving prison when they have this opportunity, they take the opportunity to share the gospel with the jailer.
And the jailer hears this and he says, what must I do to be saved?
And so as they preach the word to him, he trusts in Christ for salvation,
He's baptized along with his whole family, and then they go on from there.
And so what I want you to hear from this crazy story in Acts 16 is think about the three different people that we heard about in the founding of this church.
You've got an upper class woman, a middle class man, and a lower class girl.
One of them is Asian, one's Greek, and the other is Roman.
One was converted through reason and dialogue.
One's converted through deliverance of an evil spirit.
And one is converted after hearing the witness after an incredible miracle.
So you've got this woman, this man, and this young girl.
And that's the beginning of the church in Philippi.
the gospel, changing lives and bringing people together who would otherwise have nothing to do with one another.
All of a sudden they're this family centered on Christ and they grow into a church over the years that becomes healthy and even strong enough and substantial enough to be the primary people supporting Paul's missionary journeys.
So we learned this in Philippians 4.
that this church in Philippi would take up an offering and that they would support Paul so that he could go.
So Paul leaves Philippi after starting this church there and he goes to Thessalonica and to Athens and to Corinth and to these major urban centers like Ephesus.
And then eventually he's arrested again and he ends up in Rome in prison.
And while he's in Rome in prison,
He writes this letter back to the church in Philippi, probably 10 or 11 years later.
And so the way that he introduces this letter, these first two verses that we're looking at today, it tells us so much about Paul, it tells us so much about the church in Philippi, and it can tell us so much about ourselves as well.
So look back at verse one in Philippians chapter
one.
It simply begins Paul and Timothy, servants of Christ Jesus.
Now Paul's introducing himself.
That's the way they would do this in ancient letters.
He would say his name first.
But think about the way that he identifies himself.
This is the apostle Paul.
He planted that church.
He's an apostle.
He's traveled all these cities.
He's well known.
He wrote half the New Testament.
He could introduce himself in so many ways, Paul, an apostle of Christ, Paul, the one who planted that church, Paul, the one who you owe your life to.
No, he says, Paul, servant, servant of Jesus.
That's how he sees his identity.
He then goes on in verse two to declare their identity over them.
Says to all the saints in Christ Jesus, isn't that beautiful?
I mean, think back to who they were.
a business woman who was probably caught up in everything involving her work.
A middle class jailer who was doing his job, going to the jail every day.
This young girl who was demonized and yet what does he say to them?
Your saints.
Now a saint in the Bible isn't someone who died long ago who's revered today.
Now a saint is a Christian.
The word saint literally means ones who are made holy
He's reminding them of who they are in Christ.
He says, remember who you were, you were selfish, you were prideful, you were slaves to sin, you were alone, but now in Christ, you're saints, you're holy, you're children of God, you're salt, you're light.
And I love that he says to them, to all the saints in Christ Jesus who are at Philippi with the overseers and deacons.
He specifically mentions church leadership here, overseers and deacons.
And this is the pattern of what we see in the New Testament, that the church should be led by a plurality of elders, overseers, those words are used synonymously, and deacons.
That's what we have at reality LA, we have elders and deacons, and then we have community group leaders.
And just a few weeks ago when we were kind of initially adjusting to everything with the coronavirus,
We did a Zoom call with a bunch of our elders and deacons and we had over a hundred of our community group leaders on the Zoom call and, and, and, at the Zoom meeting.
And I, I told them, I said, listen, there's no way that we could prepare for what we're experiencing right now.
This is totally unprecedented.
It's obviously unexpected.
I said, and yet, although there's no way that we could prepare, I said, I feel like we're as prepared for this as we could be because
We have healthy leadership structures, biblical leadership structures, and we have incredible leaders, elders and deacons and community group leaders and people serving in a variety of different ways.
And that is so important for the health of the church.
It's important for us now as a church.
And I'm grateful as I hear stories of the ways that our elders and deacons are reaching out and serving and shepherding and being connected as much as we possibly can in a time where that is difficult.
He goes on in verse two then to simply say, Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Grace and peace.
Those are the bookends of the gospel.
And it's really a summary of the book of Philippians.
Grace is the means and peace is the result.
And we're gonna see so much of the depths of the gospel as we go through the book of Philippians over the next 15 weeks.
But what I want to show you in the rest of our time today is a bit of an overview.
I want to show you how through the book of Philippians, we'll see that the gospel creates a community of joy, solidarity and resilience.
That's exactly what we need in the midst of this time.
So first the gospel creates a community of joy.
Philippian talks about joy a lot.
In fact, 12 times it mentions the word joy or rejoice.
But listen, this isn't a cheap joy.
This isn't an attempt to downplay or minimize the actual hardships that we're going through today, nor was that Paul's intention with the people in Philippi then.
This is a deep joy.
This is a joy that we can have in suffering.
This is a joy that's beyond circumstances.
And we can have that because it's a joy from God.
See, joy is not merely a feeling of happiness.
Joy is a delight that is settled in your soul because it's based on something greater than your circumstances.
I think about in the Old Testament, when God's people were in exile and they were afraid and their city had been demolished, what could Nehemiah tell his people to put strength in him?
He said, the joy of the Lord is your strength.
That's the kind of gospel rooted joy that we're going to be learning about through the book of Philippians.
And I want you to know in the midst of all of this, in isolation and difficulty and loss, you can have joy.
You can have joy that's from the Lord and that transcends the circumstances that we're in right now.
So the gospel creates a community of joy and the gospel creates a community of solidarity.
Now that word solidarity really means agreement, mutuality.
It's a togetherness that comes from having a common interest.
And it's amazing that this is such a prominent theme in the book of Philippians because the guy who's writing it is in prison.
But think about this, Philippians, what we have is the book of Philippians.
It's a letter.
It was technology that Paul was using
in place of face-to-face interaction.
Sounds familiar, right?
So he writes this letter.
And even though he's in prison and they're far away, this letter is filled with language of deep relationships.
He talks about how they have a partnership in the gospel.
He talks about how together they are partakers of grace.
He refers to people as fellow workers, fellow soldiers.
And in chapter one verse eight,
He says, I yearn for you with the affection of Jesus.
So there's this deep longing for relationships and deep joy in the relationships that he has, even though they can't be together physically.
Now, I think this is really applicable for us as a church.
Think about back to the beginning of the year, Vision Sunday.
We talked about how what we really believe, what God wants for us as a church this year,
is that we would be a unified people in a fragmented culture.
And we talked about that primarily in terms of politics and how there's gonna be so much division and people being torn apart in the midst of this year.
We had no idea what was coming our way, right?
And so at one level, we could look back to that and say, oh, I guess we were off or we didn't see what was coming.
No, I think actually now we need to hear that word more than ever of what it means for us to be a unified people.
Who would have thought
that there would have been something that could pull people apart more than politics in the year 2020.
And yet here we are forced to not come together physically.
God is calling us and he wants to teach us through this time to be a unified people.
We'll see that throughout the book of Philippians.
So the gospel creates a community of joy and of solidarity.
And then third, a community of resilience amidst the adversity that Paul speaks into.
He pleads with them, hold fast, stand firm, press on.
We need to be able to recognize that we can be strengthened by adversity.
We don't have to be crushed by it.
We need to be able to see through the lens of faith that every obstacle brings different opportunities with it and we can get creative about that.
And this is what you see when you look back through the Scriptures and throughout church history.
that the church is a resilient people.
I mean, you see this with the Apostle Paul, he was shipwrecked, he was beaten, he was whipped, he was stoned.
He just keeps getting back up and going back in and preaching the gospel.
He has this mentality of the more you knock me down, the more I'll get up because I've got the Lord working in me and through me.
You see this in the book of Acts, you see it in the early church where persecution spreads the church and it becomes mission.
You see it throughout history that kingdoms come and go, movements rise and fall, but the church remains in the midst of all of that.
We're gonna see throughout the book of Philippians that the mission of Jesus is unstoppable.
Not because of us, but because of him.
Nothing can stop God's purposes, not disease.
Not persecution, not chains, not the devil, nothing.
And all of this, again, is it's not because of our effort or who we are.
It's because of God's grace.
In Philippians 1, 6, the Apostle Paul says, and I am sure of this, that he who began a good work in you will bring it to completion at the day of Jesus Christ.
God's going to finish the work that he has begun.
So I want to encourage you, don't give up, endure,
Hold fast, stand firm, press on.
God is at work in all of this.
Joy, solidarity, resilience.
How can all of those things come from a man who's in prison?
Well, I'll tell you why.
Because he's pointing us to a savior who brought redemption through sacrifice.
through the most horrific and ugly circumstance brought beauty and glory and salvation.
Think about this.
We're just looking at these first two verses in Philippians this week and it talks about a lot of things.
Paul and Timothy and the saints and Philippi and overseers and deacons, but there's one word that it mentions three times here.
Three times it mentions Jesus in these first two verses.
When you talk about what the book of Philippians is all about and what's the theme of Philippians, let's not over-complicate this.
It's Jesus.
And it's when we look to Jesus ultimately that we have that joy.
It's when we look to Jesus that we experience that solidarity that comes in community.
It's when we look to Jesus that we have the kind of resilience that we need in a time like this.
And this Jesus who we're gonna learn about in the book of Philippians is the one who is God himself, the king of the universe.
who like it talks about in Philippians 2, took on the form of a servant.
He humbled himself, even to death, to death on a cross, for us, for our sins, to make us new.
But not only did he humble himself to death on a cross, he rose from the grave.
He was highly exalted.
He has a name above every name.
And that name will be proclaimed so that every knee will bow and every tongue confess that Jesus is Lord.
So church, I want to call you today to look to Christ, to keep your eyes fixed on Him, to not allow your circumstances, to determine your heart, to determine your joy, to determine your attitude, but to look to Christ and know that we have been given everything that we need in Him.
And as we look to Christ, we'll do that together.
This will be a time for us to rally as a church, to be strengthened by this adversity for the glory of God.
Let's pray together.
Jesus, we look to you as the crucified and resurrected one.
And I pray for every single person listening to this right now, that as they look to you, that hope would rise in their hearts, that joy would spring up in their soul
and that peace would settle deep within them.
God, we pray for us as a church, that this would be a time where we are strengthened through adversity.
God, throughout this series over the months to come, we pray that this would be a time where you cultivate deeper love in us for you and for one another and for our city.
We pray this in Jesus' name, amen.